[AI in HR. Between well-functioning software and real innovation](ai-in-hr-between-well-functioning-software-and-real-innovation.html){.u-url} {#ai-in-hr.-between-well-functioning-software-and-real-innovation .entry-title .p-name content-field="title"}
==============================================================================================================================================

[[Barbara
Jastrzebska](perspectives6ccd.html?author=5b4f91c43eb1ea2ee6416db3){.p-author
.author .entry-byline-link}]{.entry-author}

[date:long](ai-in-hr-between-well-functioning-software-and-real-innovation.html){.entry-dateline-link}

[[Applied
AI](category/Applied%2bAI.html){.entry-morefrom-link}]{.entry-category}

HR is often mentioned as one of the most certain fields to see AI in
action. With high expectations there come the doubts that it is all a
little bit misleading. What are the "can" and "cant's" of AI in Human
Resources? Read our short summary. 

It\'s widely believed that AI will replace well-crafted software, which
already exists in the industry but unfortunately isn't deployed in many
companies. Still, the same companies express a hope that somehow
adoption of AI will magically fix the issues of their software or lack
of thereof. 

![rawpixel-668346-unsplash.jpg](https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/v1/5b4dba1c372b9677b7cf4abd/1535552233160-VWHNP2VDSXYMXA3I5PXV/ke17ZwdGBToddI8pDm48kFu84C23nyagYsP7Lr7qD_N7gQa3H78H3Y0txjaiv_0fDoOvxcdMmMKkDsyUqMSsMWxHk725yiiHCCLfrh8O1z4YTzHvnKhyp6Da-NYroOW3ZGjoBKy3azqku80C789l0k9kZPbuygN4RSDPe_G5PO-H4zNXuPc7g6RzK3T59WFb1hAZHwHQMBFr9WYRPyXagw/rawpixel-668346-unsplash.jpg)

**Surely AI in HR can help in the following ways:**

-   Screen and source the candidates, look for the perfect match on both
    sides (employer and candidate)

-   Reduce Bias. Although AI can be affected by our cultural biases,
    counter-measures are already in research and there are techniques
    that let us minimise it. For example we can use AI to score
    candidates to help your HR team make the screening decision.

-   Improve the communication by use of the Chat / Email bots to speed
    it up and at the same time make it more human. The chatbots can
    provide answers to numerous daily questions regarding salaries,
    social benefits, and holiday leaves.

-   Minimise the manual task through Robotic Process Automation. The
    long existing automation possibilities are now super-powered as they
    can make decisions and interact with real word documents more
    naturally.

-   Make prediction of the key metrics in the HR process.. Like your
    churn, the time needed to get new candidates based on requirements
    etc. But this is being implemented in good software since some time
    already.

What all above statements have in common is the possibility of AI to
learn based on data and then make recommendations and decisions, from
simple conversational choices to these complex, based on values that
they determine that are important for us. It is where the real
breakthrough happens. Not in the simple automation and reducing
administrative stuff which should be already solved at your organisation
by well-crafted software. 

![rawpixel-633846-unsplash.jpg](https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/v1/5b4dba1c372b9677b7cf4abd/1535552346212-8K74ZGGSVIOS0V8IK4JD/ke17ZwdGBToddI8pDm48kK5ZgJ934hl5jzByRlMNF617gQa3H78H3Y0txjaiv_0fDoOvxcdMmMKkDsyUqMSsMWxHk725yiiHCCLfrh8O1z4YTzHvnKhyp6Da-NYroOW3ZGjoBKy3azqku80C789l0luUmcNM2NMBIHLdYyXL-JytGLG2WEFgtlvYkYLTiA9H1UvjSAzVIP56lK9ffmbPqg/rawpixel-633846-unsplash.jpg)

**Going to the other side of our summary, the following applications of
AI would be unnecessary, maybe too expensive to implement and instead -
quickly done with software. **

-   communicating candidate status and tracking the hiring process

-   following the collection of all required new hire documents

-   crafting and automatic sending of holiday requests

-   tracking paper work to stay compliant

-   etc

Above is just a cry for better and more automated software, which
hopefully will be deployed along with the AI solutions. If you are
looking to address such issues, good software may be just enough. There
is no reason to wait for the AI.

This article was inspired by hopes and comments expressed in Forbes
article from July 2018: [11 Ways AI Can Revolutionize Human
Resources](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbeshumanresourcescouncil/2018/07/09/11-ways-ai-can-revolutionize-human-resources/#501b35e2e304).

Tagged: [HR](tag/HR.html), [Healthcare](tag/Healthcare.html),
